<h1>Starting a Youtube channel</h1>
#1. Don’t be paralyzed by the fear to start out on Youtube. The fastest way to overcome this fear is to actually get started.<br><br><br>#2. Choose a niche for your channel and stick to it. Don’t just upload random videos.<br><br><br>#3. Your channel niche must be:<br>1. something you’re passionate about<br>2. something you know a lot about (or willing to learn)<br>3. something that can potentially bring money<br>Youtube is almost never an overnight success. The first several months will be lots of work and not much result. Without passion, you'll give up and quit.<br>Also, channels focusing on daily vlogging or hobbies that are too niche might not have enough potential for monetization.<br><br><br>#4. How do you find what you're truly passionate about?<br>You're truly passionate about something if:<br>1. You are willing to do it for free<br>2. You can talk about it for hours<br>3. It has been like this for at least a year (otherwise it might be just a temporary interest in something)<br><br><br>#5. When promoting a personal brand or individual expertise, consider using a channel name consisting of just your first and last name.<br><br><br>#6. Consider including the keywords of your niche as part of your channel name. Good real life examples: Learn English with Emma, Yoga with Adriene.<br><br><br>#7. When writing the text on the About page, use less of “I” and “me” and more of “you” and “your”.<br>Bad: "Welcome to MY channel! I'M a passionate cook and I'll be sharing MY favorite recipes with you. I started this channel to showcase MY culinary skills and share MY love for cooking with everyone." <br>Good: "Welcome to our channel! We're here to provide YOU with helpful tips and tricks on cooking delicious meals at home. We want to share our passion for food with YOU and help YOU elevate YOUR cooking game."<br><br><br>#8. Don't spend too much time perfecting your channel's avatar, art, or About page when starting out.  Since there won't be many viewers initially, it's unlikely that anybody will spend their time examining your channel's design. Invest that time in making another video. You can always improve the look of your channel later when you see some traction.<br><br><br>#9. Accept the fact that Youtube is almost never an overnight success. Instead, it’s several months of hard work without seeing much result.<br><br><br>#10. Accept the fact that being a youtuber almost never means “just doing whatever you enjoy doing and getting paid for that”. Instead, you will have to be constantly doing what your audience enjoys.<br><br><br>#11. If you lose motivation along the way, do the following exercise. Think deeply about why you want to be on YouTube, what you want to achieve, and what your channel's goal is. Write your answers down and put them somewhere you can see them. Whenever you feel lost, scared or unsure, look at your answers and remind yourself why you started.
<h1>Making videos</h1>

<h2>Schedule</h2>
#12. Try posting at least one video every week. If you can do more, go for it, but only as long as the quality doesn’t suffer.<br><br><br>#13. Don't rush and upload lots of content all at once when starting out. Say, if you have 52 videos, your channel will grow more if you keep uploading a video a week all through the year than if you upload a video each day during the first 2 months and only upload sporadically after.
<h2>Equipment</h2>
#14. When it goes for your content, equipment and production quality, always start with only what you have now and improve over time. As a beginner yuotuber, using your smartphone camera will be just fine.<br><br><br><br>#15. Use the following video editing apps:<br>Android: InShot<br>iPhone/iPad: LumaFusion<br>Apple: iMovie<br>Windows: Adobe Premiere Pro.
<h2>Good video</h2>
#16. Don’t set out to start making a video as soon as an idea pops up. Top YouTube creators often come up with multiple video ideas, create thumbnails for them, and then decide which ones are worth making. Oftentimes, only one out of five ideas gets made into a video. Although it may seem like a waste of time, it's actually a great way to make videos of great quality.<br><br><br>#17. The best way to go about making a video is:<br>- to have a big idea first<br>- to create a powerful title<br>- plan the possible thumbnail<br><br><br>#18. To make a successful YouTube video, there are four important things you need to include:<br>1. A great concept or idea<br>2. An attention-grabbing opening (hook)<br>3. High-quality content that delivers on your idea<br>4. A quick and smooth transition to your next video
<h2>Video ideas</h2>
#19. As a new content creator, focus on creating search-based content. Make videos that answer questions or talk about popular topics that people are searching for. This makes it more likely that your videos will show up when people search on YouTube or Google. As you get more viewers and subscribers, you can start making different types of videos that your audience will enjoy.<br><br><br>#20. Use the YouTube search bar to find out what people are searching for. As you type in your query, you'll see a list of predictions that reflect what other people are searching for. To reach your target audience, check out these predictions and create content that addresses their queries and interests.<br>Let's say you have a cooking channel and you want to create a new video about making a classic Italian dish. You can use the YouTube search bar to find out what people are searching for related to that dish. When you type "how to make spaghetti carbonara" into the search bar, you might see predictions like "spaghetti carbonara without cream," "spaghetti carbonara with bacon," or "spaghetti carbonara with eggs only."<br>Based on these predictions, you could create a video that addresses each of these variations on the classic dish, providing recipes and cooking tips for each one. By doing this, you're creating content that directly addresses the questions and inquiries that people are already searching for on YouTube, increasing the chances that your videos will be discovered by a wider audience.
<h2>Hook</h2>
#21. Don’t use any intros, don’t say “Hey guys, welcome back to my channel!” Instead, the first seconds of your video need to contain the strongest hook you can come up with. If your logo is so important to you or you have an unbearable urge to tell how your day was, you’ll have a chance to do it once you’re done with the hook.<br><br><br>#22. A hook is a powerful opening of a video that grabs the viewer's attention and makes them want to keep watching. Briefly tell the audience all the coolest things they are about to see while also highlighting some of the best clips from your video. To avoid the "bad movie trailer effect", try teasing the highlights instead of revealing everything at once.
<h2>Core video</h2>
#23. Your every video has to deliver on the promise made in the title. For example, if your video’s title is "The simplest way to get rid of rodents", and you spend the entire video promoting a 500-dollar mouse trap, don’t expect your audience to be happy about it.<br><br><br>#24. Use B-Rolls (extra footage) to keep viewers engaged.<br><br><br>#25. When editing, cut out all the boring and non-essential parts.<br><br><br>#26. Use humor in your videos if possible, but never force it.
<h2>Ending</h2>
#27. When your video is done with the core content, your final goal is to quickly direct the audience to another video on your channel. This can be a follow-up video, a next episode in the series, a deeper research on the same topic or simply a related video. The key task is to invite the viewers to explore your channel thus increasing the average view per viewer (AVPV).<br><br><br>#28. Don’t give your audience any hints that you’re finishing the video. They will evaporate the moment they sense that you’re done with the main content. Instead, your mission is to catch them while they’re still around and to direct them to your other videos so that they stay on your channel longer. Youtube appreciates that.
<h2>Productivity</h2>
#29. Start with simple videos. If you have a lot of other things going on in your life, like a job, family, or school, it's better to create simple videos than to not create videos at all. Start with "talking head" videos and build up gradually, as you become more comfortable with content creation and have more time to dedicate to it.<br><br><br>#30. Try to come up with the title and thumbnail idea before you start filming and not the other way around.<br><br><br>#31. Be sure to be well-rested and focused when shooting or recording.<br><br><br>#32. Always be batch producing content. When you’re filming, shoot two videos at once. When making thumbnails, do it for several videos. This is the biggest productivity advice we can give you.<br><br><br>#33. With each new video that you make, improve something.
<h2>Analytics</h2>
#34. When examining the analytics of your videos, pay most attention to:<br>- click-through rate (CTR)<br>- retention rate.<br>CTR measures how many viewers click on your video's thumbnail or title and start watching the video, compared to how many times the video has been shown to viewers.<br>If your video has a high CTR, YouTube is more likely to recommend it to new potential viewers. If your video has a weak title, topic, or thumbnail, it can result in a lower CTR, which reduces the chances of your video's success.<br>To get more viewers, it's crucial to create an attractive and attention-grabbing topic, title, and thumbnail for your video. If these elements fail to pique the viewers' interest, they are less likely to click on your video, and as a result, YouTube will not recommend your video to other potential viewers. <br>Retention rate measures how long viewers watch your videos.
<h2>Collaborations</h2>
#35. Collaboration is the second-fastest way to increase your viewership, just behind a viral video.<br><br><br>#36. Only approach the collaborators who align well with your niche. For example, if your channel is about learning foreign languages, don’t collaborate with a cooking channel.<br><br><br>#37. When searching for collaborators, look at channels your size first.<br><br><br>#38. If you want to collaborate with a larger or more successful youtuber, the most effective approach is to reach out to them with a request for an interview.<br><br><br>#39. When reaching out, don’t just copy and paste the same message to all the people on your list. Take some time to watch their content and make a personalized approach.<br><br><br><br>#40. The best way to become a person people want to collaborate with is by offering value to them. Deliver a top-notch interview, advertise their content and projects and then share the interview as much as you can.<br><br><br>#41. Attending events is an excellent way to find potential collaborators. Here is a small list of popular events to get you started: Beautycon, ComicCon, Playlist, Social Media Week, VidCon.
<h2>Trends</h2>
#42. Creating videos about trending topics such as famous people and celebrities can be a great way to attract views and engage with a wider audience. Here are some examples of video ideas that capitalize on the popularity of celebrities and famous people:<br>1. Reacting to the latest celebrity news or gossip<br>2. Creating a makeup or fashion tutorial inspired by a celebrity's look<br>3. Doing a deep dive into the life and career of a famous person<br>4. Reviewing a movie or TV show that stars a popular celebrity<br>5. Collaborating with another YouTuber to do a fun challenge or game inspired by a celebrity<br>6. Creating a parody or satire video that pokes fun at a famous person or their recent actions.<br><br><br>#43. You can also leverage current events that are relevant to your industry.<br>Here are some examples of how to jump on current events in different industries:<br>1. Beauty and Fashion: Create content around red carpet looks and trends from major award shows, such as the Oscars or the Met Gala.<br>2. Technology: Cover major tech conferences and announcements, such as the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) or the Apple Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC).<br>3. Sports: Discuss major sporting events, such as the Olympics, World Cup, or Super Bowl, and provide analysis or reactions.<br>4. Politics: Discuss and analyze major political events, such as elections, debates, and policy changes.<br>5. Food and Beverage: Cover major food festivals or events, such as the New York City Wine & Food Festival or the World Championship Barbecue Cooking Contest.<br><br><br><br>#44. You can also leverage trending topics by creating content around popular songs or moments in pop culture. Here are some practical examples of how YouTubers can cover popular songs or pop culture moments:<br>1. React videos: Create a reaction video to a new music video release or a popular song. Share your thoughts and opinions on the song, the music video, and the artist.<br>2. Dance challenges: Create a dance challenge based on a popular song. Encourage your audience to learn the dance and share their own videos with you.<br>3. Parodies: Create a parody of a popular song or music video. Put your own spin on the lyrics and music video to make it unique and entertaining.<br>4. Lip-sync videos: Create a lip-sync video to a popular song. You can add your own twist to the video by incorporating costumes, props, or a unique setting.<br>5. Reviews: Create a review video of a new album or a popular song. Share your thoughts on the lyrics, the music, and the artist's overall performance.<br>6. Cover songs: Create a cover of a popular song. Put your own spin on the song to make it unique and showcase your own talents.<br>Remember to always respect copyright laws and make sure to properly credit the original artist.<br><br><br>#45. You can also take advantage of trends by featuring popular influencers in your content. Collaborate with an influencer, react to an influencer's content or discuss it in your own video, create content that parodies or satirizes an influencer's style or content. Examples of popular influencers: MrBeast, Shane Dawson, Dude Perfect, Casey Neistat.<br><br><br>#46. Be quick to embrace trends. Don’t wait for a trend to reach its peak, it’s gonna be too late then.<br><br><br>#47. When hunting for trends, use Reddit, BuzzFeed, Google Trends and your competitors’ channels.
<h2>Tentpoles</h2>
#48. The tentpole strategy on YouTube means creating content around big events or topics that are relevant to your audience. This could include holidays, seasons, viral videos, popular songs, current movies, and events. By incorporating these trends into your content, you can take advantage of the increased exposure and momentum they bring. The most obvious tentpole events: New Year's Day, Valentine's Day, St. Patrick's Day, Easter, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Halloween, Thanksgiving, Christmas Day, Cyber Monday, Black Friday, Mother’s Day, Father’s Day. Also 10 examples of major cultural events that can become tentpoles: Super Bowl, Oscars, Grammy Awards, Cannes Film Festival, New York Fashion Week, Coachella, Comic-Con International, Art Basel, World Cup, Burning Man.<br><br><br>#49. When applying the tentpole strategy, be quick. Don’t wait until the Halloween night to upload your Halloween video. Do it weeks or even months in advance.<br><br><br>#50. Google Trends is a useful tool for tentpole strategy as it shows when people start searching for holidays, cultural events, and trends, when the searches peak, and when they drop off.
<h1>Promoting videos</h1>
#51. Always ask your viewers to subscribe to your channel. Statistically, content creators who remind their audience to subscribe in every video tend to have larger subscriber base.<br><br><br>#52. Don’t ask your viewers to subscribe at the very beginning of your videos. Don’t just say: “Please subscribe to my channel”. Only ask to subscribe once your video has provided your audience with enough value to justify subscription. Also always tell your viewers what they’re going to get out of subscription. Example: “If you found this video helpful, remember to subscribe to my channel so you can see all of my new recipe videos every week.”<br><br><br>#53. Always ask people to leave comments on your videos.<br><br><br>#54. When your channel is small, respond to every single comment on your videos.<br><br><br>#55. If your goal on Youtube is to make money, don’t give too much weight to comments under your videos such as “Nice video”, “It was really helpful”, “You deserve more subs”. Everybody gets them and they mean nothing. Only trust the objective data from Youtube analytics. Your video is nice only if it receives a nice amount of views. Your content was only then really helpful to people if your video showed a retention of 50% or higher. You only deserve more subs if you’re getting a lot of subs.<br><br><br>#56. If possible, come up with a special name for your community. PewDiePie calls his fans “bros”. Gary Vaynerchuk calls his audience “Vayniacks”. Your viewers will love it.<br><br><br>#57. Ask your viewers for ideas for your next video, create content based on their suggestions, and give them a shoutout at the beginning of the video by naming actual names. Nothing will make your audience feel more encouraged, surprised and happy than this.<br><br><br>#58. Don’t waste time promoting your channel on other social media. Trying to send traffic from Instagram, Facebook or TikTok to Youtube is plain ineffective. Even if some users click on your Youtube videos, they only usually watch several seconds of the content which ruins average view duration (AVD) and results in Youtube recommending your videos much less.<br><br><br>#59. Focus on what's working well on your YouTube channel and build upon it.
<h1>Making money</h1>
#60. Don’t even think about money within the first months of your journey. Instead, always remember that you will be making a lot of money in the long run once you grow true fans loyal to your channel or your product.<br><br><br>#61. Once your channel hits one thousand subscribers and four thousand hours of watch time over a period of 12 months, apply for Youtube Partnership Program to be able to receive a share of the ad revenue.<br><br><br>#62. Don’t rely just on the ad money from the Youtube Partnership Program. Use affiliate marketing, brand deals, merchandise etc. Not only it increases your income, but also makes it more stable.<br><br><br><br>#63. Remember about affiliate marketing. With affiliate marketing, you can make money by promoting products or services in your videos. You tell about a product and put the affiliate link in the description to your video. When someone clicks on the link and makes a purchase, you earn a commission on the sale (usually 1 to 10 %). Start affiliate marketing early, even before your channel hits monetization. Actively search for companies having affiliate programs such as Amazon Associates (also Bass Pro Shops, Home Depot, Kohl’s, Nordstrom, Sephora, Target, Walmart).<br><br><br>#64. Use your channel to sell your own products or services. When you sell your own product, you get to keep all of the money you make instead of just a small percentage. This method is especially beneficial for small youtubers, as it has the potential to generate revenue for you even with a relatively small number of subscribers and views. Here’s a small list of what you can be offering just to get your creativity started: Handmade crafts or products (jewelry or home décor), Digital products (printables, digital art), personalized services (editing, graphic design services), recipe or cooking guides (e-books, meal plans); DIY tutorials or guides (home renovation, car repair guides), workout plans or fitness coaching services, music or audio tracks for use in videos or podcasts, beauty or skincare products (homemade soap, lip balm), personalized merchandise (custom-made t-shirts, stickers), photography or videography services (event or portrait photography), foreign language guides or tutoring.<br><br><br>#65. If you own a physical business, you can use YouTube as a way to promote it to people outside your area. For example, if you own a store, you can create videos that showcase that store and what you sell, and use YouTube to reach people around the world. Although you won't make money directly from the videos, you can use them to bring in more customers to your store and increase your revenue.<br><br><br>#66. Don’t wait for sponsors to reach out to you. Reach out to them! Even if your channel only has 1500 subscribers.<br><br><br>#67. Only have brand deals with sponsors whose product is appropriate for your audience. For example, if you’re a children’s toy channel, don’t promote alcohol beverages.
